Cloud Functions is a huge part of the Firebase ecosystem.

It just came out of beta in 2018, and it's changing the way we code.

Cloud Functions is the connective tissue that makes Firebase a "serverless" platform.

Secure operations are unavoidable in production applications. 

Sure, you can make a quick demo that doesn't need to send any email or accept a Stripe payment... 

...but most apps are worthless without secure, administrative operations.

Functions-as-a-service, or FaaS, let's us perform secure server operations without managing a server

Cloud Functions is a Functions-as-a-Service provider that's integrated into the Firebase platform.

So we can ship single JavaScript functions to Cloud Functions and trigger them in a variety of ways.

Cloud Functions runs on servers, but you don't get to interact with those servers. 

Cloud Functions has your code and will run it as Cloud Functions sees fit. 

It can spin up 20 servers to handle a spike in traffic...

...and it can spin them all down again without any input from you or your code.

Cloud Functions is a Google Cloud Platform or GCP service...

...but it has a series of Firebase-specific events...

...so we often refer to those events as Cloud Functions for Firebase.

Cloud Functions is for all of GCP, not just Firebase... 

...but it's especially useful when combined with Firebase.

Cloud functions can be triggered with HTTP calls, changes to the Realtime Database or Firestore...

...account creation or deletion with Firebase Authentication...

...and object changes in Firebase Storage.

Cloud Functions enables you to get truly creative in how you architect your serverless apps.

You can craft highly scalable job pipelines...

...implement complex messaging systems...

...or simply track and tweak your data as your users make changes to your databases.

Start out with simple functions. 

Don't get carried away until you're comfortable with the basics. 

Cloud Functions is an ocean; 

You should wade around in the shallows before heading out to deep water.

Cloud Functions has made possible entirely new application architectures.

The Firebase community is still inventing best practices and discovering what's possible.

We are in the early stages of a serverless revolution...

...so it's an exciting time to be a Firebase developer.



