Welcome to Full-Stack Firebase.

My name is Chris Esplin. 

I'm a JavaScript engineer, and I love Front-End web development.

I started using Firebase in 2013 when I quit my full-time job to strike out on my own.

I was newly independent from the corporate environment, 

and since I didn't have any managers or even co-workers, I got to pick my own development tools. 

A lot has changed since then, but my two constants have been JavaScript and Firebase.

I hope you'll come to enjoy Firebase as I have. 

Yes, I've had great experiences developing outside of the Firebase ecosystem, 

but, given a choice, I always come back to Firebase.

The goal of this course is for you to roll your first Firebase app to production.

We'll be doing code challenges where you practice what you've learned. 

These challenges will use Firebase within a live, working web application.

We'll be hands-on and super interactive.

But you'll need to know JavaScript!

If you're weak on JavaScript... this may not be the course for you.

On the plus side, you don't need to know anything about Firebase to get started. 

Just be patient and move slowly through the material.

And if you're already adept with Firebase, please skip around and for the highlights! 

The more advanced modules later in the course will be of particular interest.

I'm working on this course with my good friend and fellow Google Developer Expert, Juarez Filho. 

Juarez and I have spent a lot of time teaching Firebase together, but we've never embarked on a project quite like this one. 

Juarez is an expert in using Firebase with Angular. 

I'm more experienced with other JavaScript frameworks, so I'll be focusing on React.

So let's set up our expectations.

First, we'll cover integration for Angular and React. 

The Firebase SDK is all vanilla JavaScript, 

so if you can integrate with Angular and React, you can integrate with any modern framework.

Second, you'll need a Firebase account. 

You'll probably even want to sign up for a paid account.

Firebase's free Spark plan is **very generous**. 

However, there are some uses of Firebase Functions that require upgrading to a paid Blaze plan.

Fortunately, these features are not required for the course.

Now let's cover what this course is NOT.

This course is not framework agnostic. You will see framework-specific code.

This course is not exhaustive documentation. 

Firebase has excellent docs, so please use the docs along with this course. 

We can't re-shoot videos every time the Firebase SDK gets updated.

That would be insane.

And one last note.

Please leave us a course rating. 

Your feedback is incredibly valuable.

We're not kidding. 

We read your comments, even the means ones.

Anyway, now you know what to expect from Full-Stack Firebase.

And we are just getting started!








