Let's write some Firebase Storage code!

But first, we need to make sure that our Cloud Functions are all deployed correctly.

So checkout the `challenge dash storage` branch with `git checkout challenge dash storage`.

If you have changes in your repo that are not environment files...

...then you're about to have merge conflicts.

So let's remove all of those non-environment changes.

Run `git status` to see your change set.

If you're following along in VSCode, you can use the Git tab to do this manually.

You can reset each file individually in VSCode...

...or you can do bulk checkout operations in your terminal.

If you just finished with the Cloud Functions module, use `git checkout functions slash src`....

...to restore your functions source files without messing up your environment files.

Once your changeset is just your environment files, go ahead and check out `challenge dash storage`,

And just to be certain that your Cloud Functions are in good order...

...let's run `yarn deploy colon functions` to get a fresh Functions deploy.

This may take a few seconds....

...and once it's done...

...search the codebase for `challenge storage` to find the two challenge files.

We'll start with `src slash storage slash get dash upload dash observable dot js`.

This is vanilla Firebase Storage code wrapped in an RxJs observable...

...much like we did in our earlier Firestore challenges.

So follow the instructions and you'll soon be able to upload files from your localhost app.

Next let's navigate to `src slash storage slash delete dash image dot js`.

This one's even easier than the last challenge.

The answer is a one-liner that will delete files from your Cloud Storage bucket.

Once that's done, you'll be able to delete your uploads from the localhost app.

If you get stuck or aren't done within about half an hour, just jump to the solution.

But make sure to read the docs and let yourself struggle a bit.

Learning how to debug these sorts of systems is critical to being a great programmers...

...and it's critical to continuing on with Firebase on your own.




